Eugenio Paluello
Senior Blockchain Engineer
(+39) 392-5518747 | eugenio.paluello@gmail.com | eugypalu | eugpaluello

Work Experience

kakarot labs — Paris, France
Senior Blockchain Engineer @ Kakarot Labs
May 2024 - Current
Primarily focused on the development of the kakarot RPC.
- Gas fee rebalancing: Investigated and proposed solutions to balance relayer operational costs with user EVM fees in Kakarot Core
- Enhanced Kakarot Indexer: Improved the Kakarot Indexer by optimizing transaction indexing, ensuring efficient mapping of Ethereum transactions to Starknet transactions. Contributed to improve performance and maintainability of the indexer module
- Worked with: Rust, Typescript, Python, AWS, Docker

Polygon
Senior Blockchain Engineer @ Polygon Nightfall
Mar. 2023 - Nov. 2023
Primarily focused on the development of the Polygon Nightfall core.
- Developed a Regulator service employing modified 3-way Diffie-Hellman encryption for secure transaction secret sharing with third parties
- Integrated the ability to perform atomic transactions within each Nightfall transaction type.
- Developed the transformTransfer operation that allow the token transformation on the L2 and enable the transfer in a single step
- Worked with: Typescript, Javascript, Solidity, Circom for the development of Zero Knowledge circuit, AWS, Docker, MongoDB

Blockchain Engineer @ Polygon Nightfall
Jun. 2022 - Mar. 2023
Primarily focused on the development of the Polygon Nightfall core.
- Enhanced wallet block communication scalability by transitioning from WebSocket to an hybrid system with message broker and an AWS Lambda, drastically improving synchronization speed from minutes to just a few tens of seconds
- Developed Nightfall's POS mechanism, with transition from a single-proposer system to a multiple-proposer system.
- Worked with: Typescript, Javascript, Solidity, Circom for the development of Zero Knowledge circuit, AWS, Docker, MongoDB

EthereansOS
Smart Contract Engineer
Mar. 2021 - Mar. 2022
- Developed a protocol that allows arbitrage between various DEX on the Ethereum blockchain. Smart Contracts allows the execution of even complex swaps, involving many swaps to achieve profitable arbitrage
- Worked with: Typescript, Javascript, Solidity

Tocket S.r.l. — Pisa, Italy
Co-founder & CTO
Mar. 2019 - Mar. 2022
Tocket, was a blockchain-based startup combating ticket scalping on live events, has reached 65K users and organized 1K events.
- Management: Developed the business model and managed technical team of 5 people.
- Blockchain: Created ERC721, ERC1155 and ERC20 tokens, secondary market Smart Contracts, used meta-transactions to simplify the use of the marketplace, smart contract testing with Truffle and Hardhat.
- Backend: Managed user authentication with Firebase, implemented serverless APIs with AWS Lambda, handled databases with dynamoDb and RDS, integrated live streaming via Amazon IVS, managed cluster of EC2 to run a video call service integrated with the platform.
- Frontend: Developed the web interface using React.
- Worked with: Typescript, Javascript, Solidity, ERC1155/721/20, React, AWS, Python, PostgreSQL, MongoDB, Docker

Side Project

Superhero Valley — Italy
Co-Founder
Oct. 2020 - Current
SuperheroValley, a non-profit community of 2K members, prepares individuals for FAANG interviews through talks, mock interviews, coding challenges, and a mentorship program, resulting in numerous successful placements at FAANG and other major tech companies.

PointerPodcast — Italy
Co-Host
Feb. 2019 - Current
Explores emerging technologies and innovation through insightful interviews and discussions, spotlighting Blockchain, Quantum Computing, and AI. Recorded more than 170 episodes with guests from both industry and academia.

Education

University of Pisa — Pisa, Italy
Master's Degree in Computer Science
Sep. 2017 - Jun. 2020
Thesis: Fully Distributed IoT Layer utilizing Ethereum Blockchain and IPFS, featuring Solidity Smart Contracts integrated with IPFS, enabling secure device interaction, data notarization, and firmware certification, substantiated by a Case Study and Formal Analysis.

University of Perugia — Perugia, Italy
Bachelor's Degree in Computer Science
Oct. 2012 - Jul. 2017
Thesis: Developed Blockchain analysis tools to detect user behavioral patterns in Bitcoin, enabling identification of addresses associated with malicious activities through pattern-focused analysis. With this thesis, obtained Microsoft Azure research grant and AWS research grant.
